Chris:
Adoption or revenue?

Nick Kritikos:
Few big clients.
Thinking private appliance

Joe:
Discussion about revenue or adoption for quite a while.
Decentralizing tech.
Ethereum good glue
EEA very early on wanted to help on mod'ing Ethereum
Defining clean separations of functionality
Interfaces
Select modules - put them together, fit for purpose private blockchain

Long range goal:
Working with Hyperleger fundation
Swapping Consensys module in

Public blockchain:
We are likely to be the best actors in the space.
Biased towards Ethereum
Eos Ardana should not be encouraged at this point

1. Focusing on adoption of Ethereum, meaning public + priovate with permissions
Thinking of global business of multiople chains, several chains together.

Revenue: protocol level, application level

John: opp we have here
it's so easy for projects like this to not see the value
Building this functionality so we can see the use case.

Chris: why are we doing what we're doing
Joe: decentralize WWW
Chris: precisely. Client is the way we will decentralize.

Dan: plan just articulated has been discussed with most of you already
nobody should be too surprised
What else should we be thinking about?

Alessandro Voto: need roadmap for production stack. Need to see the components.

Shahan: right now new client. Will get more involved into the enterprise stack
Change from just tech dev to enterprise delivery
Need to work on core techs for the new platform
Standards team on the ball with EEA
Getting buyin to help guide how to proceed with the stack

Alessandro: quick related question
Cross-spoke consistent pluggable Consensys SaaS thing?
Is Pegasys going to help?

Dan: Mano we talk regularly. Slightly on pause, little early for that.
Compatibility with existing efforts first.

Shahan: we are workign with the spokes directly.
Worked with Viant - BPMN tool
Try to see how we satisfy their needs.
Dubai SaaS guided us- Jeremy and the EEA vision

Chris: What is the tradeoff -
growing adoption, developer using us, vs meeting objectives by specific enterprises by the EEA?

Dan:
Perception between private and public will go away over time.
Can't do everything at once
John:
If I may - Hi, I'm John. I don't really care what you want, I just want to see how you would use our tech.

Jeremy:
I think before we said we can 

Andreas:
Music to my ears to be public blockchain compatible
Pluggable - important, compete with Parity
POA algorithm very good. Geth didn't have until recently.
Turing phase 2, this is important.
Galileo: new project past 2 weeks, systematically to map blockchain universe / industry or activity.

Dan: see us working a lot of spokes.

Chris: going to lead the team, need to find what we are atually going to do. Need to make right decisions.
So: public first, then look at how to fulfill enterprise use cases

Dan: yeah, not going to fulfill all use cases

Jeremy: protocol engineering. Need to see what projects we can tackle.
Need a broader range of projects this team should drive.

Joe: what's happened at the EF for the last couple years is disturbing. Resolving itself.
will be easier to participate going forward
will blow it open
new projects significant presence

John: gosh why don't we fork

Jeremy: need to hire more PMs and software devs

Lubin: can't stop people from exploring the space

Dan: and we're going to open source the client, and we will make it easier for people to work

John: need to prioritize. 

Dan: Will need community manager. PRs in Quorum not being addressed.

Joe: Stds at the EEA will allow to align or parallelize efforts

Matthew: should there be one eth client like bitcoin?

Joe: there is plenty of clients. Right now some maintained could subvert somewhat the effort.

Tim: who drives standards? New client implements then standardizes?

Joe: Enterprises should be driving that.

Chris: keep the standard in the future as much as possible - the more we can learn
committing to standard too early is hard.

Antoine: give to ASF?

Dan: looked at it, no opinion

Tim: so EEA like W3c?

Dan: correct. Same approach with working groups.

Joe: was created because a lot of orgs were rolling their own Ethereum.
working groups popping up at the application layer for people to create standards

Jim: tech question
saw the chart
how do you see this working out - new client working very fast, spec very slow

Peter: working on implementation for a little bit, then backfill into the standards.

Chris: sounds like a nice situation. Works best for us.

Joe: politically very valuable - have an open standards process and sketch drafts.

Chris: concern - maybe not funded in reality - is we have standards that move too fast, and we h

Dan: Robert and Grant working on this. Mid-Jan get draft present to WG end of jan
Get it done by end Feb.
Will not run away.

Joe: Quorum not the big problem. We will replace quorum.

Shahan: Constellation shows that it's not possible to standardize.

Matthew: John how did standards hit the development of hyperledger

John: ask Jim

Jim: Over in Hyperleger, there is no spec. Nowhere close to yellow paper.

Steve: Very structured on the structure model, process. No standards thinking.
Governance model was interesting.
Leaning on the Linux foundation.
Shows good level of quality.

Dan: Jim next week is running us through Fabric.





